#### INSTRUCTOR DETAILS

|  Information             | Details                                                                      |
|----------------------    |------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Name**                 | Moole Muralidhara Reddy                                                      |
| **Email**                | techworldwithmurali@gmail.com                                                |
| **Website**              | https://www.techworldwithmurali.com               |
| **LinkedIn profile**     | [Moole Muralidhara Reddy](https://www.linkedin.com/in/moole-muralidhara-reddy) |


# What is Dockerfile

Dockerfile is a file used to build our own docker images by giving some instructions to customize an existing docker images based on our requirement in an automated way without running a docker container.  
File name is Dockerfile.

---

# Why Dockerfile is Required?

We have a lot of pre-existing docker images available in the Docker Hub registry. They can be pulled directly and we can use them for our need.  
But still, we may need to customize the existing docker images based on our requirement.  
So Dockerfile helps us to build our own docker images automatically as per the instructions given.

---

# Exploring the Instructions in Dockerfile

Dockerfile Instructions Commands are:
- `FROM`  
- `MAINTAINER`
- `LABEL`
- `ADD`
- `COPY`
- `CMD`
- `ENTRYPOINT`
- `ENV`
- `ARG`
- `EXPOSE`
- `RUN`
- `USER`
- `VOLUME`
- `WORKDIR`

---

# Dockerfile Syntax?

Dockerfile syntax consists of two kinds of main line blocks:

- **# Comment**
- **INSTRUCTION arguments**

### A Simple Example:
```dockerfile
# Print "Hello docker!"
RUN echo "Hello docker!"
````

---

# `FROM` Instruction

The `FROM` instruction specifies the underlying OS architecture that you are going to use to build the image.
You have to use some form of base image for you to get started with building an image.

Example:

```dockerfile
FROM tomcat:7
FROM tomcat:latest
```

---

# `MAINTAINER` Instruction

`MAINTAINER` instruction is used to specify the author who creates this new docker image for the support.

Examples:

```dockerfile
MAINTAINER Administrator
MAINTAINER admin@techworldwithmurali.com
MAINTAINER DevOps Engineer (admin@techworldwithmurali.com)
```

---

# `LABEL` Instruction

`LABEL` instruction is used to specify metadata information for an image. A LABEL is a key-value pair.

Examples:

```dockerfile
LABEL "Application_Environment"="Development Team"
LABEL "Application_Support"="Tech World With Murali"
```

---

# `ADD` Instruction

`ADD` instruction is used to copy files, directories, and remote URL files to the destination (docker container) within the filesystem of the docker images.
`ADD` also has two forms - Shell Form and Executable Form.

Examples:

* **Shell Form**:

```dockerfile
ADD /root/file /data/
```

* **Executable Form**:

```dockerfile
ADD [ "/root/file",  "/data/" ]
```

If the `src` argument is a compressed file (tar, gzip, bzip2, etc.), then it will extract at the specified `dest` in the container’s filesystem.

---

# `COPY` Instruction

`COPY` instruction is used to copy files, directories, and remote URL files to the destination (docker container) within the filesystem of the docker images.
`COPY` instruction also has two forms - Shell Form and Executable Form.

Examples:

* **Shell Form**:

```dockerfile
COPY /root/file /data/
```

* **Executable Form**:

```dockerfile
COPY [ "/root/file", "/data/" ]
```

If the `src` argument is a compressed file (tar, gzip, etc.), then it will copy exactly as a compressed file and will not extract.

---

# `CMD` Instruction

The `CMD` instruction is used to set a command to be executed when running a container.
There must be only one `CMD` in a Dockerfile. If more than one `CMD` is listed, only the last `CMD` takes effect.
`CMD` has two forms - Shell Form and Executable Form.

Examples:

* **Shell Form**:

```dockerfile
CMD python myapp.py
```

* **Executable Form**:

```dockerfile
CMD ["python","myapp.py"]
```

---

# `ENTRYPOINT` Instruction

The `ENTRYPOINT` instruction is used to configure and run a container as an executable.
`ENTRYPOINT` also has two forms - Shell Form and Executable Form.

Examples:

* **Shell Form**:

```dockerfile
ENTRYPOINT ping google.com
ENTRYPOINT python myapp.py
```

* **Executable Form**:

```dockerfile
ENTRYPOINT ["ping", "google.com"]
ENTRYPOINT ["python", "myapp.py"]
```

If the user specifies any arguments (commands) at the end of the `docker run` command, the specified commands override the default in `CMD`.
But `ENTRYPOINT` instructions are not overwritten by the `docker run` command, and `ENTRYPOINT` will run as it is.

---

# `EXPOSE` Instruction

`EXPOSE` is used to inform about the network ports that the container listens on runtime.
Docker uses this information to interconnect containers using links and to set up port redirection on the Docker host system.

Examples:

```dockerfile
EXPOSE 80 443
EXPOSE 80/tcp 8080/udp
```

---

# `RUN` Instruction

`RUN` is used to execute any commands on top of the current image, creating a new layer.
`RUN` has two forms - Shell Form and Executable Form.

Examples:

* **Shell Form**:

```dockerfile
RUN yum update
RUN systemctl start httpd
```

* **Executable Form**:

```dockerfile
RUN ["yum", "update"]
RUN ["systemctl", "start", "httpd"]
```

---

# `VOLUME` Instruction

`VOLUME` is used to create or mount a volume to the Docker container from the Docker host filesystem.

Examples:

```dockerfile
VOLUME /data
VOLUME /data:/usr/local/tomcat
```

---

# `WORKDIR` Instruction

`WORKDIR` is used to set the working directory.

Examples:

```dockerfile
WORKDIR /opt
WORKDIR /usr/local/tomcat
```

---

# `ENV` Instruction

`ENV` is used to set environment variables with key and value.
These variables will be available during the image build and also after the container is launched.

Examples:

```dockerfile
ENV APP_DIR /tmp/
ENV app_version 3.0
```

---

# `ARG` Instruction

`ARG` is also used to set environment variables with key and value, but these variables are only available during the image build, not at runtime.

Examples:

```dockerfile
ARG TMP_NAME my_image
ARG TMP_VER 3.0
```

---

# `USER` Instruction

`USER` is used to set the username, group name, UID, and GID for running subsequent commands. By default, the root user is used.

Examples:

```dockerfile
USER username
USER username:groupname
USER 1010
USER 1010:1205
```

---

# `ONBUILD` Instruction

`ONBUILD` is used to specify a command that runs when the image in the Dockerfile is used as a base image for another image.

Examples:

```dockerfile
ONBUILD ADD . /opt/data
ONBUILD RUN yum install httpd
```

