#### INSTRUCTOR DETAILS

|  Information             | Details                                                                      |
|----------------------    |------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Name**                 | Moole Muralidhara Reddy                                                      |
| **Email**                | techworldwithmurali@gmail.com                                                |
| **Website**              | https://www.techworldwithmurali.com               |
| **LinkedIn profile**     | [Moole Muralidhara Reddy](https://www.linkedin.com/in/moole-muralidhara-reddy) |

## What is DockerHub?

- DockerHub is a cloud-based registry service provided by Docker that allows developers to store, manage, and share Docker images.
- It acts as a central repository for Docker images, where users can upload and download images that are pre-configured for a wide range of applications, tools, and frameworks.

### Key Features of DockerHub:

1. **Public and Private Repositories**:
   DockerHub allows both public and private repositories for storing images. Public repositories are available for everyone, whereas private repositories can be accessed only by authorized users.

2. **Pre-Built Images**:
   DockerHub hosts official and community-contributed images for popular programming languages, databases, frameworks, operating systems, and development tools, making it easier to quickly spin up containers for your projects.

3. **Automated Builds**:
   DockerHub supports automated builds, where you can link your DockerHub account to a GitHub or Bitbucket repository. Any changes pushed to the repository can automatically trigger a new build of your Docker image on DockerHub.

4. **Image Versioning**:
   DockerHub allows version control of images. You can tag images with version numbers or other labels, allowing easy management and retrieval of different versions.

5. **Docker Official Images**:
   DockerHub hosts a collection of Docker Official Images that are curated, maintained, and supported by the Docker team. These images include popular software and environments such as `Ubuntu`, `Node.js`, `Redis`, `MySQL`, and more.

6. **Search and Discover**:
   DockerHub provides a search feature that allows you to discover images based on keywords, categories, or tags.

7. **Collaborations**:
   You can collaborate with others by sharing your images and allowing other users to contribute to your repositories.

8. **Security**:
   DockerHub includes security scanning to detect vulnerabilities in images. It helps to ensure the images you are using are free of known security risks.

---

### Example of Using DockerHub:

To **pull** an image from DockerHub:

```bash
docker pull nginx:latest
```

To **push** an image to DockerHub:

```bash
docker login
docker tag my-image orgname/my-repository:tag 
docker push orgname/my-repository:tag
```

Example: 
```bash
docker login
docker tag user-registration techworldwithmurali/user-registration:5ae62
docker push techworldwithmurali/user-registration:5ae62
```

DockerHub plays a crucial role in the Docker ecosystem by providing a convenient platform to share Docker images and enables the easy use of containers in various environments.

